# Underwater Systems

<!-- WARNING: THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! -->

<div style="page-break-before: always;">

</div>

The course provides an extensive foundation in oceanic engineering,
covering both theoretical concepts and practical applications.

It is part of the Master Degree in Robotics and Automation Engineering,
University of Pisa, Italy

Teaching semester: Spring 2024

Language of instruction: Italian and English

## Course coordinators:

Riccardo Costanzi and Andrea Munafo

## Facts

- Version: 1
- Credits: 6
- Study level: Master’s degree level

## How to use

You can open and run each notebook in any order your prefer depending on
your interest.

## Installation Instructions

This repository’s notebooks are designed for Python 3.10 and depend on
several Python libraries:

- numpy
- pandas
- matplotlib

For a quick guide on setting up an Anaconda environment, refer to the
<a href='00_Getting_started_with_Python_and_Jupyter_Notebook.ipynb' target='_blank' style='font-size: 16px;'>00_Getting_started_with_Python_and_Jupyter_Notebook.ipynb</a>
</li>

notebook.

### Troubleshooting

In case you encounter the following error:

    ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'underwater_systems'

It indicates that the `underwater_system` package is missing. To install
it, execute the following command in your terminal, ideally from the
root directory of this repository:

``` bash
pip install -e '.[dev]'
```

Explanation of the command components: - `-e`: Stands for “editable”,
allowing you to modify and immediately utilize the package during
development. - `.`: Targets the current directory, implying the package
is installed from here. - `[dev]`: Specifies additional “development”
dependencies, which are required for tasks like documentation and
testing, but not for the package’s core functionality.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Automating Jupyter Book PDF Generation with Images

### Overview

The `build_jupyterbook_with_images.py` script automates the process of
including images in the PDF version of your Jupyter Book. It copies an
‘images’ directory to the appropriate location within the Jupyter Book
build directory and then executes the build process.

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.x installed.
- Jupyter Book and its dependencies are installed.
- pyppeteer

### Structure Assumptions

- The script is located in the `bin` directory at the project root.
- The `images` folder, which contains the images to be included in the
  PDF, is at the project root.
- The Jupyter notebooks are in a directory named `nbs` at the project
  root.

### Usage Instructions

1.  Navigate to the `bin` directory where the script is located.

2.  Run the script using Python:

    ``` bash
    python bin/build_jupyterbook_with_images.py
    ```

3.  The script will copy the `images` folder to the Jupyter Book build
    directory and then start the build process for the PDF version of
    your Jupyter Book.

4.  Upon successful execution, the script will output a confirmation
    message. If any issues occur, error messages will be displayed.

### Fix for `pyppeteer.errors.TimeoutError`

If you encounter a timeout error
(`pyppeteer.errors.TimeoutError: Navigation Timeout Exceeded: 30000 ms exceeded`)
when building your Jupyter Book, a simple fix can be applied.

#### Steps to Apply the Fix

1.  Locate the `pdf.py` file in your Jupyter Book or pyppeteer
    environment.

2.  Open `pdf.py` and navigate to line 50.

3.  Modify the line from:

    ``` python
    await page.goto(f"file:///{html_file}", {"waitUntil": ["networkidle2"]})
    ```

    to:

    ``` python
    await page.goto(f"file:///{html_file}", {"timeout": 0, "waitUntil": ["networkidle2"]})
    ```

This change sets the timeout to zero, effectively removing the timeout
limit, and allows the page to load completely before proceeding, which
can resolve the timeout issue encountered during the PDF generation
process.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Acknowledgements and references

- Relevant textbooks and resources used to prepare these notebooks are
  reported in
  <a href='00_Syllabus.ipynb' target='_blank' style='font-size: 16px;'>00_Syllabus.ipynb</a>

## Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)

- see notebook
  <a href='00_FAQ.ipynb' target='_blank' style='font-size: 16px;'>00_FAQ.ipynb</a>
