Underwater Systems
================

<!-- WARNING: THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! -->

## Course content

The course discusses key properties of the ocean sea water, with the
objective to serve as basis for the understanding of sound transmission
in the oceans.

Then it explains how this knowledge is applied in underwater instruments
for positioning, signal transfer, mapping, measurements and ocean
sampling.

Primarily, we will talk about Sensing, Communications and Autonomy -
Effective autonomy can compensate for limits in sensing and
communications. - Effective communications can compensate for limits in
sensing and autonomy.

Intelligence/Perceptiveness/Connectedness is part of a bigger picture
where: - *Smarter* systems means more can be done with fewer systems. -
*Smarter* systems means more can be done with less capable (lower cost)
systems.

## Learning outcome

After having completed the course the students shall have obtained a
basic understanding of the processes in the world ocean as well as in
design, contruction and working principle of various underwater systems.

Specific learning objectives are: - Knowledge of the world oceans,
including depths, ocean currents, temperature conditions and
salinity/seawater density. - Knowledge and understanding of design and
operational conditions for the main underwater vehicles as ROVs and
AUVs.  
- Know and understand various underwater positioning and navigational
systems. Being able to write (group) reports about complex underwater
operations, including time surveying of the mother ship. - Knowledge
related to important issues that need to be considered during design,
installation and operation of underwater systems, including robots.

## Learning methods and activities

Lectures, practical training through projects. There will be a graded
student group work. All group members will in principle get the same
marks. Exercises are obligatory to be approved to start exam.

## Compulsory assignments

Exercises

## Further on evaluation

Aggregated assessment is the basis for the grade in the course. The
assement includes a final exam and a project work. Students are free to
choose Italian or English for written assessments.

## Recommended previous knowledge

Robotics

## Course materials

Various text books, lecture notes and relevant available information on
internet.

## Facts

- Version: 1
- Credits: 6
- Study level: Masterâ€™s degree level

Teaching semester: SPRING 2023

Language of instruction: Italian and English

## Course coordinators:

Riccardo Costanzi and Andrea Munafo

## Install

## Install

The notebooks run with python 3.10 and use the following python
libraries:

- numpy
- pandas
- matplotlib

Notebook `00_Getting_started_with_Python_and_Jupyter_Notebook.ipynb`
provides a short introduction on how to set up an anaconda environment
to get you started.

## How to use

You can open and run each notebook in any order your prefer depending on
your interest.
